README.md, before:

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/qbeon/webwire-go.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/qbeon/webwire-go)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/qbeon/webwire-go)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/qbeon/webwire-go)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/zalando/skipper?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/qbeon/webwire-go)
[![Donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-green.svg)](https://www.paypal.me/romshark)

# WebWire for Golang
WebWire is a high-level asynchronous duplex messaging library built on top of [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/de/docs/WebSockets) and an open source binary message protocol with builtin authentication and support for UTF8 and UTF16 encoding.
The [webwire-go](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go) library provides both a client and a server implementation for the Go programming language. An official [JavaScript client](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-js) implementation is also available. WebWire provides a compact set of useful features that are not available and/or cumbersome to implement on raw WebSockets such as Request-Reply, Sessions, Thread-safety etc.

#### Table of Contents
- [Introduction](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#webwire-for-golang)
- [Installation](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#installation)
- [Contribution](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#contribution)
  - [Maintainers](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#maintainers)
- [WebWire Binary Protocol](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#webwire-binary-protocol)
- [Examples](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#examples)
- [Features](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#features)
  - [Request-Reply](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#request-reply)
  - [Client-side Signals](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#client-side-signals)
  - [Server-side Signals](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#server-side-signals)
  - [Namespaces](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#namespaces)
  - [Sessions](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#sessions)
  - [Thread-Safety](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#thread-safety)
  - [Hooks](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#hooks)
    - [Server-side Hooks](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#server-side-hooks)
    - [Client-side Hooks](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#client-side-hooks)


## Installation
Chose any stable release from [the available release tags](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/releases) and copy the source code into your projects vendor directory: ```$YOURPROJECT/vendor/github.com/qbeon/webwire-go```

## Contribution
Feel free to report bugs and propose new features or changes in the [Issues section](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/issues).

### Maintainers
| Maintainer | Role | Specialization |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **[Roman Sharkov](https://github.com/romshark)** | Core Maintainer | Dev (Go, JavaScript) |
| **[Daniil Trishkin](https://github.com/FromZeus)** | CI Maintainer | DevOps |

## WebWire Binary Protocol
WebWire is built for speed and portability implementing an open source binary protocol.
![Protocol Subset Diagram](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/blob/master/docs/img/wwr_msgproto_diagram.svg)

The first byte defines the [type of the message](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/blob/master/message.go#L71). Requests and replies contain an incremental 8-byte identifier that must be unique in the context of the senders' session. A 0 to 255 bytes long 7-bit ASCII encoded name is contained in the header of a signal or request message.
A header-padding byte is applied in case of UTF16 payload encoding to properly align the payload sequence.
Fraudulent messages are recognized by analyzing the message length, out-of-range memory access attacks are therefore prevented.

## Examples
- **[Echo](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/tree/master/examples/echo)** - Demonstrates a simple request-reply implementation.

- **[Pub-Sub](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/tree/master/examples/pubsub)** - Demonstrantes a simple publisher-subscriber tolopology implementation.

- **[Chat Room](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/tree/master/examples/chatroom)** - Demonstrates advanced use of the library. The corresponding [JavaScript Chat Room Client](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-js/tree/master/examples/chatroom-client-vue) is implemented with the [Vue.js framework](https://vuejs.org/).

## Features
### Request-Reply
Clients can initiate multiple simultaneous requests and receive replies asynchronously. Requests are multiplexed through the connection similar to HTTP2 pipelining.

```go
// Send a request to the server, will block the goroutine until replied
reply, err := client.Request("", wwr.Payload{Data: []byte("sudo rm -rf /")})
if err != nil {
  // Oh oh, request failed for some reason!
}
reply // Here we go!
 ```

Timed requests will timeout and return an error if the server doesn't manage to reply within the specified time frame.

```go
// Send a request to the server, will block the goroutine for 200ms at max
reply, err := client.TimedRequest("", wwr.Payload{Data: []byte("hurry up!")}, 200*time.Millisecond)
if err != nil {
  // Probably timed out!
}
reply // Just in time!
```

### Client-side Signals
Individual clients can send signals to the server. Signals are one-way messages guaranteed to arrive not requiring any reply though.

```go
// Send signal to server
err := client.Signal("eventA", wwr.Payload{Data: []byte("something")})
```

### Server-side Signals
The server also can send signals to individual connected clients.

```go
func onRequest(ctx context.Context) (wwr.Payload, *wwr.Error) {
  msg := ctx.Value(wwr.Msg).(wwr.Message)
  // Send a signal to the client before replying to the request
  msg.Client.Signal("", wwr.Payload{Data: []byte("ping!")})
  return wwr.Payload{}, nil
}
```

### Namespaces
Different kinds of requests and signals can be differentiated using the builtin namespacing feature.

```go
func onRequest(ctx context.Context) (wwr.Payload, *wwr.Error) {
  msg := ctx.Value(wwr.Msg).(wwr.Message)
  switch msg.Name {
  case "auth":
    // Authentication request
  case "query":
    // Query request
  }
  return wwr.Payload{}, nil
}
```
```go
func onSignal(ctx context.Context) {
  msg := ctx.Value(wwr.Msg).(wwr.Message)
  switch msg.Name {
  case "event A":
    // handle event A
  case "event B":
    // handle event B
  }
}
```

### Sessions
Individual connections can get sessions assigned to identify them. The state of the session is automagically synchronized between the client and the server. WebWire doesn't enforce any kind of authentication technique though, it just provides you a way to authenticate a connection. WebWire also doesn't enforce any kind of session storage, it's up to the user to implement any kind of volatile or persistent session storage, be it a database or a simple map.

```go
func onRequest(ctx context.Context) (wwr.Payload, *wwr.Error) {
  msg := ctx.Value(wwr.Msg).(wwr.Message)
  client := msg.Client
  // Verify credentials
  if string(msg.Payload.Data) != "secret:pass" {
    return wwr.Payload{}, wwr.Error {
      Code: "WRONG_CREDENTIALS",
      Message: "Incorrect username or password, try again"
    }
  }
  // Create session, will automatically synchronize to the client
  err := client.CreateSession(/*arbitrary data*/); err != nil {
    return wwr.Payload{}, wwr.Error {
      Code: "INTERNAL_ERROR",
      Message: "Couldn't create session for some reason"
    }
  }
  client.Session // return wwr.Payload{}, nil
}
```

### Thread Safety
It's safe to use both the session agents (those that are provided by the server through messages) and the client concurrently from multiple goroutines, the library automatically synchronizes concurrent operations.

### Hooks
Various hooks provide the ability to asynchronously react to different kinds of events and control the behavior of both the client and the server.

#### Server-side Hooks
- OnOptions
- OnClientConnected
- OnClientDisconnected
- OnSignal
- OnRequest
- OnSessionCreated
- OnSessionLookup
- OnSessionClosed

#### Client-side Hooks
- OnServerSignal
- OnSessionCreated
- OnSessionClosed

----

© 2018 Roman Sharkov <roman.sharkov@qbeon.com>

Commit message:

Improve README
Add dependencies section.

README.md, after:

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/qbeon/webwire-go.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/qbeon/webwire-go)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/qbeon/webwire-go)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/qbeon/webwire-go)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/zalando/skipper?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/qbeon/webwire-go)
[![Donate](https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate-PayPal-green.svg)](https://www.paypal.me/romshark)

# WebWire for Golang
WebWire is a high-level asynchronous duplex messaging library built on top of [WebSockets](https://developer.mozilla.org/de/docs/WebSockets) and an open source binary message protocol with builtin authentication and support for UTF8 and UTF16 encoding.
The [webwire-go](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go) library provides both a client and a server implementation for the Go programming language. An official [JavaScript client](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-js) implementation is also available. WebWire provides a compact set of useful features that are not available and/or cumbersome to implement on raw WebSockets such as Request-Reply, Sessions, Thread-safety etc.

#### Table of Contents
- [Introduction](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#webwire-for-golang)
- [Installation](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#installation)
- [Contribution](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#contribution)
  - [Maintainers](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#maintainers)
- [WebWire Binary Protocol](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#webwire-binary-protocol)
- [Examples](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#examples)
- [Features](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#features)
  - [Request-Reply](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#request-reply)
  - [Client-side Signals](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#client-side-signals)
  - [Server-side Signals](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#server-side-signals)
  - [Namespaces](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#namespaces)
  - [Sessions](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#sessions)
  - [Thread-Safety](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#thread-safety)
  - [Hooks](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#hooks)
    - [Server-side Hooks](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#server-side-hooks)
    - [Client-side Hooks](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#client-side-hooks)
- [Dependencies](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go#dependencies)


## Installation
Chose any stable release from [the available release tags](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/releases) and copy the source code into your projects vendor directory: ```$YOURPROJECT/vendor/github.com/qbeon/webwire-go```

## Contribution
Feel free to report bugs and propose new features or changes in the [Issues section](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/issues).

### Maintainers
| Maintainer | Role | Specialization |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **[Roman Sharkov](https://github.com/romshark)** | Core Maintainer | Dev (Go, JavaScript) |
| **[Daniil Trishkin](https://github.com/FromZeus)** | CI Maintainer | DevOps |

## WebWire Binary Protocol
WebWire is built for speed and portability implementing an open source binary protocol.
![Protocol Subset Diagram](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/blob/master/docs/img/wwr_msgproto_diagram.svg)

The first byte defines the [type of the message](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/blob/master/message.go#L71). Requests and replies contain an incremental 8-byte identifier that must be unique in the context of the senders' session. A 0 to 255 bytes long 7-bit ASCII encoded name is contained in the header of a signal or request message.
A header-padding byte is applied in case of UTF16 payload encoding to properly align the payload sequence.
Fraudulent messages are recognized by analyzing the message length, out-of-range memory access attacks are therefore prevented.

## Examples
- **[Echo](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/tree/master/examples/echo)** - Demonstrates a simple request-reply implementation.

- **[Pub-Sub](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/tree/master/examples/pubsub)** - Demonstrantes a simple publisher-subscriber tolopology implementation.

- **[Chat Room](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-go/tree/master/examples/chatroom)** - Demonstrates advanced use of the library. The corresponding [JavaScript Chat Room Client](https://github.com/qbeon/webwire-js/tree/master/examples/chatroom-client-vue) is implemented with the [Vue.js framework](https://vuejs.org/).

## Features
### Request-Reply
Clients can initiate multiple simultaneous requests and receive replies asynchronously. Requests are multiplexed through the connection similar to HTTP2 pipelining.

```go
// Send a request to the server, will block the goroutine until replied
reply, err := client.Request("", wwr.Payload{Data: []byte("sudo rm -rf /")})
if err != nil {
  // Oh oh, request failed for some reason!
}
reply // Here we go!
 ```

Timed requests will timeout and return an error if the server doesn't manage to reply within the specified time frame.

```go
// Send a request to the server, will block the goroutine for 200ms at max
reply, err := client.TimedRequest("", wwr.Payload{Data: []byte("hurry up!")}, 200*time.Millisecond)
if err != nil {
  // Probably timed out!
}
reply // Just in time!
```

### Client-side Signals
Individual clients can send signals to the server. Signals are one-way messages guaranteed to arrive not requiring any reply though.

```go
// Send signal to server
err := client.Signal("eventA", wwr.Payload{Data: []byte("something")})
```

### Server-side Signals
The server also can send signals to individual connected clients.

```go
func onRequest(ctx context.Context) (wwr.Payload, *wwr.Error) {
  msg := ctx.Value(wwr.Msg).(wwr.Message)
  // Send a signal to the client before replying to the request
  msg.Client.Signal("", wwr.Payload{Data: []byte("ping!")})
  return wwr.Payload{}, nil
}
```

### Namespaces
Different kinds of requests and signals can be differentiated using the builtin namespacing feature.

```go
func onRequest(ctx context.Context) (wwr.Payload, *wwr.Error) {
  msg := ctx.Value(wwr.Msg).(wwr.Message)
  switch msg.Name {
  case "auth":
    // Authentication request
  case "query":
    // Query request
  }
  return wwr.Payload{}, nil
}
```
```go
func onSignal(ctx context.Context) {
  msg := ctx.Value(wwr.Msg).(wwr.Message)
  switch msg.Name {
  case "event A":
    // handle event A
  case "event B":
    // handle event B
  }
}
```

### Sessions
Individual connections can get sessions assigned to identify them. The state of the session is automagically synchronized between the client and the server. WebWire doesn't enforce any kind of authentication technique though, it just provides you a way to authenticate a connection. WebWire also doesn't enforce any kind of session storage, it's up to the user to implement any kind of volatile or persistent session storage, be it a database or a simple map.

```go
func onRequest(ctx context.Context) (wwr.Payload, *wwr.Error) {
  msg := ctx.Value(wwr.Msg).(wwr.Message)
  client := msg.Client
  // Verify credentials
  if string(msg.Payload.Data) != "secret:pass" {
    return wwr.Payload{}, wwr.Error {
      Code: "WRONG_CREDENTIALS",
      Message: "Incorrect username or password, try again"
    }
  }
  // Create session, will automatically synchronize to the client
  err := client.CreateSession(/*arbitrary data*/); err != nil {
    return wwr.Payload{}, wwr.Error {
      Code: "INTERNAL_ERROR",
      Message: "Couldn't create session for some reason"
    }
  }
  client.Session // return wwr.Payload{}, nil
}
```

### Thread Safety
It's safe to use both the session agents (those that are provided by the server through messages) and the client concurrently from multiple goroutines, the library automatically synchronizes concurrent operations.

### Hooks
Various hooks provide the ability to asynchronously react to different kinds of events and control the behavior of both the client and the server.

#### Server-side Hooks
- OnOptions
- OnClientConnected
- OnClientDisconnected
- OnSignal
- OnRequest
- OnSessionCreated
- OnSessionLookup
- OnSessionClosed

#### Client-side Hooks
- OnServerSignal
- OnSessionCreated
- OnSessionClosed

## Dependencies
This library depends on:
- **[websocket](https://github.com/gorilla/websocket)** version [v1.2.0](https://github.com/gorilla/websocket/releases/tag/v1.2.0) by **[Gorilla web toolkit](https://github.com/gorilla)** - A WebSocket implementation for Go.

----

© 2018 Roman Sharkov <roman.sharkov@qbeon.com>
